Synapse 1.56 (#1308)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/blog/2022/04/2022-04-05-synapse-1.56.mdx

---
date: '2022-04-05'
title: Synapse 1.56 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Brendan Abolivier
---

Happy release day everyone! [Synapse
1.56](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.56.0) is out! Let's
have a look at what's new in this release.

## Additional restrictions around registration

> One common scenario of abuse we have seen on Matrix over the years is attackers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One common mode of abuse we have seen on Matrix over the years is attackers
```

Author: (actually backed it out because I think "scenario" fits best here)

Reviewer: 'scenario of abuse' kind of grates on me and sounds unidiomatic, 'mode of abuse' sounds better, but not too fussed I suppose

Author: Reworded into "abuse scenario" which sounds more correct to me

making use of public homeservers with open registration to automatically create
multiple accounts in order to evade sanctions. Sometimes, this can lead to these
public homeservers being banned across multiple public rooms despite their
administrator(s) not being directly at fault.

In order to mitigate this, starting from this release, Synapse will refuse to
start if it is configured with open registration with no additional
verification. This means users wishing to register on these homeservers will
need to authenticate themselves, either via
[email](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/8a519f8abc6de772167c2cca101d22ee2052fafc/docs/sample_config.yaml#L1285),
[recaptcha](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.56/CAPTCHA_SETUP.html) or
[registration

> tokens](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.56/usage/administration/admin_api/registration_tokens.html).

Reviewer: Unsure, but maybe note you can opt out of this requirement. There may still be valid uses for open registration in situations where you understand what you're doing; we don't necessarily want to make it sound like we're deliberately taking away flexibility, just that we're trying our best to make it hard to leave your server as an open relay unconsciously.

Author: Sure, but I don't think this is something we want to recommend to most people. I assume if someone starts worrying about that they'll go read the upgrade notes for all the info and will see it can be disabled.

Reviewer: Maybe 'by default' is the phrasing we could use here. I'm just wary of giving the image that 'the synapse developers know better than you and won't let you do what you want'

Author: Good point, have changed into "will refuse to start by default if..."

Please see the [upgrade
notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.56/upgrade.html#open-registration-without-verification-is-now-disabled-by-default)
for more information.

## So long groups, and thanks for all the fish

Long-time users of Matrix might remember when, [way back in
2017](https://matrix.org/blog/2017/10/24/synapse-0-24-is-here), we introduced
groups (also known as communities in some clients). Groups would let users
define a curated set of users and rooms to represent a given community that
others could refer to. We even used to have `+matrix:matrix.org` which was
the official group for the Matrix team and community.

If this sounds a bit familiar to you (and remind you of a certain other feature
of Matrix), that's no coincidence. Some time ago, we had already identified a
good amount of shortcomings with groups, and decided to redesign the feature
entirely and release it under the name "spaces". If you're curious about this,

> then you should probably read the [spaces announcement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then you may wish to read the [spaces announcement
```

blogpost](https://matrix.org/blog/2021/05/17/the-matrix-space-beta) we released
at the time.

Now that spaces have been out of beta for some time, and have shown to be a very
useful feature to the ecosystem, we decided it was time to retire support for
groups from Synapse, after more than 4 years of good and loyal services. This
release of Synapse deprecates the feature and disables it by default, with a
plan to completely remove it in Synapse 1.58 (which should go out in a couple of

> weeks).

Reviewer: 3 or 4 weeks, isn't it? :)

Author: Bleh, I meant to write something like "about a month", sounds like I was on autopilot.
Thanks for noticing!

## Everything else

> As of this version, Synapse will also refuse to start the database it is running
> against has a non-`C` locale. See the [upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of this version, Synapse will also refuse to start the if the Postgres database it is running
against has a non-`C` locale. See the [upgrade
```

notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.56/upgrade.html#change-in-behaviour-for-postgresql-databases-with-unsafe-locale)

> for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for more information. In short, this is a safeguard against accidental database corruption.
```

This release also includes the ability for modules to register server
administrators through the `register_user` method, as well as a [new
method](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/v1.56.0/synapse/module_api/__init__.py#L1290-L1312)

> to allow modules to register existing 3PID associations.

Reviewer: Sounds odd. 'Register existing 3PID assocations'; why would you register something that already exists? I can't remember the explanation but it may be worth elaborating a tiny bit

Author: I've reworded slightly, but I don't think we should be going too much into the details of the changes (since we're already linking to the documentation).

Reviewer: sure, but if the summary is too incomprehensible, there'd be no point mentioning it. What you've changed it to now seems a lot better though, thanks.
